git-hack(1) -- AI-augmented git workflow helper
================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`git hack` [<idea-text>]<br>
`git hack idea` [-y] [-m <model>] [<idea-text>]<br>
`git hack issue` [-y] [-m <model>] <number><br>
`git hack commit` [-a] [-A] [-c] [-p] [-n] [-y] [-m <model>]<br>
`git hack propose` [-d] [-y] [-m <model>]<br>
`git hack ship` [-a] [-c] [-d] [-n] [-y] [-m <model>]<br>
`git hack pick` [<sha>] [<branch>]<br>
`git hack pick` --continue<br>
`git hack done`<br>
`git hack init`<br>

## DESCRIPTION

`git-hack` augments git workflows with AI assistance. It uses the `llm` CLI
to generate branch names, commit messages, and pull request descriptions, and
`git-town` for branch lifecycle management. Typical flow: create a branch with
`idea` or `issue`, make changes, commit with `commit`, open a PR with
`propose`, and clean up with `done`.

When invoked without a subcommand, `git hack` runs in interactive `idea` mode.
When invoked with an unrecognised first argument, that argument is treated as
an idea description.

## SUBCOMMANDS

### idea (default)

    git hack [idea-text]
    git hack idea [-y] [-m model] [idea-text]

Generate a branch name from a free-text description using `llm`, then create
the branch via `git town hack`. Prompts interactively if <idea-text> is
omitted.

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    Accept the AI-generated branch name without prompting.

  * `-m` <model>, `--model` <model>:
    Override the default `llm` model for this invocation.

### issue

    git hack issue [-y] [-m model] <number>

Fetch the title and body of a GitHub issue via `gh`, generate a branch name
with `llm`, and create the branch via `git town hack`. Requires `gh` to be
installed and authenticated (`gh auth login`).

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    Accept the AI-generated branch name without prompting.

  * `-m` <model>, `--model` <model>:
    Override the default `llm` model for this invocation.

### commit

    git hack commit [-a] [-A] [-c] [-p] [-n] [-y] [-m model]

Generate a commit message for staged changes using `llm` and commit. If no
changes are staged, offers to run `git add -p`.

  * `-a`, `--all`:
    Stage all tracked modifications (`git add -A`) before generating the
    message.

  * `-A`, `--amend`:
    Amend the previous commit instead of creating a new one. Implies
    `--force-with-lease` when pushing.

  * `-c`, `--conventional`:
    Generate a Conventional Commit subject (`type: description`) instead of a
    plain imperative subject.

  * `-p`, `--push`:
    Push to origin after committing.

  * `-n`, `--no-verify`:
    Skip pre-commit and commit-msg hooks.

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    Commit with the AI message without prompting.

  * `-m` <model>, `--model` <model>:
    Override the default `llm` model for this invocation.

### propose

    git hack propose [-d] [-y] [-m model]

Generate a PR title and body using `llm`, then open or update the pull request
via `git town propose`.

  * `-d`, `--draft`:
    Open the PR as a draft.

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    Submit without confirming the generated title/body.

  * `-m` <model>, `--model` <model>:
    Override the default `llm` model for this invocation.

### ship

    git hack ship [-a] [-c] [-d] [-n] [-y] [-m model]

Run `commit` then `propose` in a single step. Flags are forwarded to the
appropriate subcommand: `-n` (no-verify) goes to `commit` only; `-d` (draft)
goes to `propose` only; all other flags go to both.

  * `-a`, `--all`:
    Stage all tracked modifications before committing.

  * `-c`, `--conventional`:
    Use Conventional Commit format for the commit message.

  * `-d`, `--draft`:
    Open the resulting PR as a draft.

  * `-n`, `--no-verify`:
    Skip pre-commit and commit-msg hooks during the commit step.

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    Accept all AI suggestions without prompting.

  * `-m` <model>, `--model` <model>:
    Override the default `llm` model for this invocation.

### pick

    git hack pick [sha] [branch]
    git hack pick --continue

Cherry-pick a commit onto the target branch. When called without arguments,
presents an interactive list of recent commits from the default base branch
(uses `fzf` if available). After a successful pick, offers to push.

  * `--continue`:
    Resume a cherry-pick that was paused due to conflicts. Verifies that all
    conflicts are resolved and all files are staged before continuing.

### done

    git hack done

Sync the current branch with its parent (`git town sync`), delete the merged
branch (`git town delete`), and check out the main branch. Fails if the branch
has not been merged.

### init

    git hack init

Install global git aliases into `~/.gitconfig`:

| Alias        | Expands to            |
|--------------|-----------------------|
| `git c`      | `git-hack commit`     |
| `git cap`    | `git-hack commit -a -p` |
| `git pr`     | `git-hack propose`    |
| `git propose`| `git-hack propose`    |
| `git pick`   | `git-hack pick`       |
| `git done`   | `git-hack done`       |

## DEPENDENCIES

Required:

  * `git` — version control
  * `llm` — AI model CLI (see <https://llm.datasette.io>)
  * `git-town` — branch lifecycle management (see <https://www.git-town.com>)

Optional:

  * `fzf` — interactive fuzzy selection for `pick` and `idea`
  * `gh` — GitHub CLI, required for `issue` subcommand

## CONFIGURATION

Run once per repository to configure git-town branch tracking:

    git town config setup

Select the `llm` model to use:

    llm models                          # list available models
    llm -m claude-3-5-sonnet-latest … # use a specific model

The `-m` / `--model` flag on any subcommand overrides the model for a single
invocation.

## SEE ALSO

git(1), git-town(1), llm(1), gh(1), fzf(1)
